okay recording hi everyone welcome to
dynamic data and capabilities working
group so let me share her screen with
you
all right so started recording please
put your name on the attendee list if
you haven't done so already is that is
there someone volunteering to take notes
today for the second half and what last
one yeah I could do it I'm just typing
my my seconds
yeah sure Jamie just just for the second
half yeah
all right the one of you Arkady or Jim I
guess I did it with our your bad test
but yeah go ahead go ahead or Connie
cool
thank you all right
please add your items to the agenda if
you want to discuss them on the second
half after the updates and so we're like
six minutes past the hour so have flight
b5 624 so I have four minutes maximum
for each update okay so first on the
list is Sandra Cruz wanna give her a
break yeah sure so it's really not much
to say but I'm sorry you you cancelled
their screen sharing and I was reading
it in second all right
so I schedules to brainstorm sessions on
a few topics of identity one for today
after these and another one on Friday
and hopefully we'll get some feedback
and decisions on topics also I you know
made up made a lot of people
during the Libby to be week Pedro ollie
David and many other Mike and many other
people during that week in Prague in
progress I've been preparing the the
meanings that we gonna have and I've
been wrapping my head on a few solutions
potential solutions to present in those
love meetings and as I said the first
one will be today also for them my next
steps I'll be working on drafting a word
plan for that entity manager which has a
few milestones and so on and so that I
can present to Pedro and get it of tools
for the digital manager milestone and so
on till the the conference at the fest
conference will be presenting there the
first VP of the dynamic manager which
has the core features and the visual
interface to interact with it so the
goal here is to make a work plan to make
that happen for me Thank You Andre do
you think you can add some some links
for the discussions that are happening I
think the the repo is public alright yes
abuse of if you don't want to
participate do that and once you have
the invites
alright so next up we'll dress Oh sir
okay hi guys once again so from the last
week before until today I've concluded
animation with a morph from the fab
until the sidebar regarding specify it
has a match now that just skills a
circle and needs to revealed on the side
by yourself I realized with better the
the FAQ button the scale and Mars which
are already implemented a new
accomplishment on the IDM concept so
from the last week I had like eight
proposals eight different approaches on
the on the last Friday I just finished
so two more of them and then one of one
concept was was chose and yeah
we're going to pick start with a style
guide I already have a draft prepared I
already defined the colors the
typography font and exhales to be used
buttons specifically the secondary
primary secondary tertiary if needed for
about dark backgrounds with the multiple
scenarios default over selected which is
focused and disabled States today I have
to find it the key user journeys with a
width and a crush for for a DM as well
and now in progress I have I've started
just today the sketching and looking for
the information architecture regarding
the profile which is the identity by
John IDM until then until then I will
continue my analysis of key base which I
started today as well comparing with
black stack try to understand what
they're cheap the best and learn from
the player their proposals in their
approach list and yeah learn with those
journeys and adapts for our proposal as
well and yeah that's it
I'm Sookie plays right yeah keep
Eisenbach stocky super interesting is
there anywhere we could follow
Network yeah I will start documenting
some somewhere on it up maybe so yeah
I'll let you know once
at something again okay if you could
then when you have URL the post URL here
in the notes yeah that's gonna be really
helpful because I would like to at least
myself I would like to follow that okay
cool thanks thank you
any question today
no so next up is Peter Santos
okay hi guys so this week I finished the
animation uncomment edit pod so when
users click edit a fading goes on and
then the text area grows a little bit
and this animation is finish it and in
progress I have the complex component
that I told you the last meanings and
the reason for this component is still
in progress is that I wasn't considering
an animation and that is for instance
when you pick reply and you have the
text area as earring under under view
and you have a fade in and then when you
click pencil the opposite happens but
when users click enter for submit the
replies we have other animation and I
wasn't considering it so I need to
finish it first and also I have a
completed of code band of to code ends
in fact and when one for scale animation
of the fact I mean when users click or
activate the extension and you have like
a bounce animation of the fab and also I
have completed the the morph animation
that and resources sold a minute ago and
for this week I have to implement these
two animations on the app itself and
that's what I'll be doing
it's it any question
I could could you have the links to the
code panel so that people codes you know
see the animations and so
cool thank you and Ray Pedro sorry what
of andreas your to Pedro alright so next
up is our caddy
you're muted yeah
okay yeah sorry bad huge management
today so a big nice thing that happened
is that we unblocked the WebSocket star
multi being merged as the default web
socket star connection mechanism and
jsap FST's 34 - which is going to
support us with offline use cases and
also just makes things a lot nicer so
that's great unless positive news I
talked with infrared Bunch and they are
basically silver extended that we should
not rely on them
pretty much for anything for a little
while so was the failing builds the
probably the best thing to do is to just
have our own managed pipeline on circle
or Travis I know it's been a little bit
better lately so maybe keep an eye on
that but it's I have I have a hiroko
deploy credentials and I'm also working
on getting the cluster team to give us
either access to the community cluster
or to set up our own cluster separately
to do the pinning on there and let's see
also yeah that eats dropped the mimics
demo on us which this is like a genre of
software that I really like and then
I've seen a lot of examples also I'm
going to see what we can learn from that
and I guess I also need to dive in on
the collaboration UX discussion which I
haven't really had a chance to just yet
so yep
khadi any question sorry what was the
the demo me that we do you say demyx i
sorry nem x so it's or world brain dot
io is a presentation at the stem as i
guess we learned about it it's like a
browser extension for collecting a
personal kind of data trail that's
searchable and annotate a little
terrible and so on
similar to hypothesis or something like
that there's been a bunch of these but i
guess the reason that she found it
relevant for us that there is like a
collaborative peer-to-peer mode because
it's it's there's no as far as I can
tell there's no coordination server so
yes I think a look into
awesome thank you all right next up is
myself I think cool so last week again
was lipid to be week team week and some
are PFS folks were also there so I went
to Puerto and did some work and it's a
meetings live live meetings also
reviewed emerged some great
contributions to pure bass Burke has
been on fire with with some some fixes
to the to the pushing pool protocols and
and how that it works a lot of
superfluous messages are now avoided and
also on that on that that sense GM has
also been uncovering some doing some
fixes on daughter's charities so I'm
I've been testing some dependence so far
haven't have not been able to break the
break synchronicity on like 8 and 10
peers on on pure pads and and so it's
looking really hardened this time I'm
looking forward to having thought of
charities green and and and then
published also been working quickly
[Music]
upgrading Jessup EFS and using as Arkady
said well WebSocket mode so a socket
star multi which allows for you to
define different servers and to even
allow not well allow you to be offline
when starting there is a slight
inconvenience because it it if the
server is not reachable at boot time it
does not try to rebind to that server
but again if it's a web web app you can
just reload on your online and it all
should work so that's that could also be
a workaround I think that's it next for
me is again starting like last week
starting at a chat app using versatile
or ipfs log and and seeing how well that
goes and then for peer bias I've come to
the realization that we need we'll
probably need and that will be now I've
see something to prevent flooding of
messages that will implement like a
sliding window protocol where the the
pusher will will not be fire housing the
puller until the puller acknowledges
some messages so that will prevent
flooding of unresponsive peers and
flooding the network stack and on the
network itself and that's it for me for
last week any question yeah dork you
know I was wondering it sounds like
there's a few different kind of like
mechanisms going on for WebSocket star
there's a WebSockets time LTE the
Stardust and then people are talking
about relay as well do you have an idea
of kind of what the difference is and
where they're going of course that's a
great question WebSockets star is very
centralized so you you well you can have
different bind to different addresses
but if JSI PFS startup was being
prevented the node doesn't start if you
fail if you're offline or if you fail to
bind to a socket star address and
WebSocket star multi allows you to
define collection officer
that you will remind me and it will
allow for them to be offline at any any
given time and so allow us to be that
that's a more decentralized approach and
then there is WebSockets
another project we're in that room which
is what started just yeah
Stardust is doesn't use socket IO I
believe so it uses WebSockets directly
so it has a bit less overhead on the
server and on the client and it I'm not
sure about about all the features but I
think that it doesn't have many of the
problems that well the the scalability
problems of a single host on a single
host that were socket star had but it's
still not a that definition and the
definition would be for one service
discovery at another rendezvous using
the rendezvous protocol and the relaying
would be using the circuitry lake and so
that's one level protocol is I think
last week was close the pull request for
the spec was closed last week and
implementation of the in Dakota ago at
the fastest other way much for about two
Gs at the facilitation but I guess it's
not being advanced on right now but the
plan is to eventually migrate to two
relatively one circuit really I just
want to add one thing so the web sockets
are multi I kind of pushed that through
into the release just to have the
behavior that we want it's not really
the like a long-term thing at all and
they might I think the fate of Stardust
my end F was kind of being reamed
a little bit more in layers I think
there's kind of a bunch of back and
forth on that but it's otherwise what
they do is describe this I think it's
bad thank you look are they any more
questions I think under I Cruz you have
a hand yeah yeah my question was if you
created an issue regarding the automated
cleavage why of the bindings of the
service that weren't were in Michigan or
even if I go offline and get back online
if it fits right so my question was if
you create an issue but I mean Akali
said it it was temporary so so it might
not make sense to have a need for to to
make that yes so I think the real kind
of online offline event based mechanisms
would have to be implemented with PGP
level and abstracted from the transports
so basically I think that's pending
implementation off like Multi multi
reports WebSockets start equipment so
it's probably a little bit of time away
yeah there's there this issue I cannot
get place you on on the chat for the
specific case of offline offline boot
but there's a bun through two or three
more issues exploring that that those
subjects and yeah it's a good deal
you're flying being offline or online
navigator API I think it's very reliable
so yeah let me TP should should have to
to implement that because it knows what
what the bindings the side of the
bindings it and then it would be a
transport agnostic so yeah unfortunately
offline web is not one of our visionary
goals for 2019 so we can't like really
really make this work
yeah but I think I think we could push
it in for the photo again I think we're
for diplomatic about it
we can I can get something that fits
much better now that this is that if we
go to a workshop or a presentation or
something like that at least it works
locally if we point who they had to
service one being the default also by
protocol and then the other one really
survey that one's okay so at least it
won't be like okay I can't present this
because I'm mindful of my wife is flaky
or a little heaven either I have an
internet connection so it's it's a goods
and temporary fix let's say like yeah I
really have to happen because so many
cases where it would break really badly
and people would be like what is this
it's actually good for our chief s
conference if Pedro or even me may you
know give a talk or workshop in there
about pure base it will give us more
safety network so it's yes we this the
dolphin story well setting up a
plication with with that good ol file
also a local wonderful server and an
internet Monday the server so requires
some some custom configuration but I
guess we can we can once this is done a
stable on on peer bias we can start then
making that applies a more pleasant
experience for the developer sorry side
comment I don't think I can actually
can't take notes because my crib pad is
like just totally crawling so I think I
defer to Jim at all sorry
Oh Jim Kent can you can you can accept
that I I'll rewatch the video later and
I'll write notes for it oh yeah no no it
could be for the second half but I guess
we're already doing some some some
discussions but I think I guess we
should move on right after me Jim
okay I'll keep my really shirt so
spent the last half of the weekend
weekend investigating these scrambled
strengthen the scalability test Dirk was
pointing out that some areas on the CI
and they'd been bugging me to because
I've been trying to do some scalability
things and I have a demo afterwards if
we have time for it and I can show you
and it was pretty it I can talk at
length about how actually like solved it
which is really interesting but I solved
it so let's see also on the weekend I
dived into learning getting up to speed
with the latest happenings in the react
community basically hooks and suspense
it's really really cool stuff we should
first some of our demos we should
actually use that deciding on if he's
the zoom chats came up with some
branding ideas let's see so I got these
fixes I just have to write some tests
for them so I can submit them to just
just Delta CR DTS and then for the
upcoming week I have some offline demos
I built for that last year and they're
really really simple and if offline is
working I'm just going to convert them
over and make them work with your pad so
and I might actually play with the hooks
because that's really cool and I wasn't
on the fuse and chats but one of
interest is that there's a offline
working group which people might not
know about but we have like Terry used
to run offline camp and so that's one of
the offshoots of what they're doing so
it seems relevant that probably sit on
them you know on that one is that
tomorrow yeah I think it's tomorrow
yeah I went to one of those camps
Terry organized because it was great and
spawn from the CouchDB community but I
guess I guess now we have to make you
make you have to make the DFS story good
at offline first use cases thank you Jim
any questions - Jim no so next up is
Dirk yes I just mean we're working on
trying to find places where we can speed
up discovery connection times message
passing and also to decrease the number
of messages that we're sending which
also has a big advantage that we reduce
the amount of cryptography so next I'm
going to look a little bit more into how
we establish membership and trying to
see if I can tighten that up a little
bit
thank you
I've noticed some really good
performance increases on the local pests
type the convergence has come down a lot
those are great contributions thank you
any questions too dark no all right so
think yeah Victor Rob
hello tell us so my week was an
interesting I spent four days for
poverty Liam basically ad work in they
do one do in causal three system make it
fit chain waste storage so the remaining
day I was making black box black box
tests it is much better than unit test
because if the system speak some
protocols and you make basically inputs
and outputs and then we you run them and
you see how it works so it is like less
effort and it is not just unit testing
but also integration testing and as I
said great thank you
later so so a quick question black box
texting you do the do you do you do you
do recording or or it's programmatic
well doing the recording is not actually
the difficult because you may just
redirect the stream all right so you my
favorite inputs and very direct outputs
and some save them and then say like it
is a correct answer but well I am not
there yet right now I'm just one second
[Music]
I turn on haha
so right now it looks more like this
okay that those were recorded no no
these are inputs and outputs all the men
what he said is that he's doing manually
but it would be easy to click order
anything
you know streamed the recording to the
food streaming checked out good string
based on the recording as well right
alright I got two questions regarding
the undo and we do that you were
is there any article or something that I
could read to understand the strategies
that you are choosing and implemented
yeah I I may actually I mean exactly
what I'm doing
or examples from literature how it was
done in other cases yeah more like if I
could if I wanted to understand your
implementation in your strategy
regarding the undo and redo feature is
there any text values explanation on I
spent half a day to put it on replicated
CC like in theory I should put
everything there just to do it once and
then I miss some the link so tell me is
address or something and I also knew
drink okay feel good now it has to
invite you and all right I can send him
to your github ID or email cool Thank
You Victor
so second half so we have like a demo
from Jim Jim do you wanna okay
thank you see this yes okay so here's
here's what I was doing before so this
is the tech your base and I've modified
it a little bit this isn't on my Linux
box I'm gonna run collection random
tests and I tweaked the parameters so
it's running 15 pairs 15 peers and it
takes a little while to get started and
then it's gonna run here so it's pushing
I think 15 pairs and it's pushing 10
characters per pair so the entire
document will be 150 characters this
takes about 30 seconds to run
and you can see this the some of these
messages will need to be cleaned up the
lats or Turks working on in petrol
and then it looks like it's probably
close to done here so and so what
happened so I dumped out so these are
all the peers so peer 0 and then this is
the 150 character what was collaboration
that was typed and it's sort of long but
you see this one is different than this
one which is really bad like you don't
want to have just peer seeing a
different document than all the other
peers so so I've got I'm gonna show you
my fix one question Jim could could you
in terms of these tests if you run it
every time it will fail every time Oh
perhaps someday
well it fell randomly especially but the
board peers you add the more likely it's
going to fail alright so here's my fixed
wing let me show you the top of
so basically I could fiddle around with
these settings here like the pier count
how many characters are tight and just
meet the type of time out really long
and down here a fiddle around with the
the speed that the Taipings have been
Inc is if you type too fast it sort of
overwhelms it if you type if you type T
slow things get bundled around and
there's less than Delta so so it's very
sensitive to the timing so so this is
the same test 150 characters and
so 15 pairs each each typing 10
characters at random not racism parts at
everyone there's a drama to do so and
these are the deltas flying around their
show with in the fact that the deltas
are getting really long here so as a
separate bug which I think Reggie was
talking about anyways and there so it
passed and so apart from the being
overwhelmed if I can type slowly enough
I tested it as far as 12 peers with 500
characters each so that was a 6,000
character long document mm-hmm
12 peers they all synced it up so I
think I've got the problem solved one
question Jim the way that did I was
testing the authorities that that fix
was through ppad well you link the
facilities and prepare bears barely pure
buyers into pure paths and then he runs
into end load tests and that was a
pretty good indicator of whether the fix
was not because if I ran it three times
that there was no no corruption
detectives and then then I feel better
but I feel kind of confident that it
it's it's fixing and I do that for eight
or ten peer cocurrent pads but I see
that that you've hardened the the
collaboration random tests I was
wondering if you could contribute to
Apple requests for clear bias with with
with that hardening off of the tests all
the parameters that you saw that would
trigger the beginning because the thing
was that in pyramids I couldn't make it
wrong
well well at least the frequency was
very low for for my experience
but you can you've been able to make it
more more more accurate I believe yeah I
didn't really see it reliably until I
got above like to like when I got up the
15 piers it happened 100% of the time
but I had to actually tweak the disable
a part of the test because at 15 piers
the DSA is only like six piers so they
don't all have the big big clocks and
all sinks are the test exactly yeah I
had to do it with the test wasn't
designed for the scale so oh okay to
contribute some of that back there's a
there's a PR I'm working on that also
removes that well replaces that part of
the test because exactly do not know the
defect o'clock for every period in the
collaboration yeah but for those that
you know you just check whether the fact
o'clock is the expected one or not I
replaced that yeah so I'm pretty happy
with this I think with the do you think
it's a protocol fixes to make it a less
chatty it this is really gonna scale a
long way definitely
do you think you could contribute
without with without hardening of the
other tests okay thank you and once you
have dealt austerities tests passing I
will integrate that into I will I will
merge at the master and release the
austerities and do the pure base along
with the JSF DFS upgrade and more
WebSockets are multi all right Thank You
Jimmy it was very good
cool any I don't see any other items on
the agenda I unless someone is there any
topic he would like you to discuss here
we have a few more minutes
or any plugs oh I wanted to ask about
like ipfs Khan and kind of surrounding
events so I know Pedro you're going to
the data
tera Nemo than in Berlin right yeah
exactly
yes so I bought I bought a ticket to
that as well and I I think I'm going to
just get a stick around Europe between
then and in ipfs Khan's so maybe it
would be nice for people to meet up like
the like the week before ipfs count or
something like that I want to be that
would be a great good idea I know that
ipfs called format is is not yet
definite so I think the initial idea was
was for it to be two days long I guess
it would be more yeah I'm not sure but I
think depending on that we could we have
devised a get together before once again
yeah it's not that urgent but I thought
I'd was you know raised the idea yeah I
think there's going to be some like the
last two days or the everybody ifs
confident there's like would be two
three days and Jason to its earlier and
there's something else I yeah I think
it'll be kind of fully settled was in
this week so nice yeah that's let's uh
let's schedule some times together
reporter did you see okay
yeah just thing is we got a little bit
of time one thing I was thinking about
something Arkady mentioned earlier it
was about pushing some stuff into the
p2p and I'm thinking we may need to do
for me we may need to encourage
something similar some things where
discovery in connection management like
being able to cancel dials some of the
discovery stuff
so I wonder if there's like I don't know
if we should just be sort of randomly
ripping issues or we should look for
look do it in a more methodical
systematic way
well the way that I'd be doing is if
anyone has any other ideas is-is-is that
is opening in issue forces if you
superior is easy open issue in if you
base that open an issue on on the
respective repo or at least if I don't
know what the repo is I will open it on
either JSP rjs IPs and and then keep
keep updating the original issue with
with with that that's that's how I've
been doing that's a good question now
know what what there are any suggestions
for yes we yeah some of them some of
them I've been considering helping and
changing perhaps the websocket star
multi and rebinding which would require
some some love from from some of us or
myself even so still still up for
consideration but they the dial the
dialing the switch interface is in dire
need of of support or for several of
these use cases yeah that's what I was
thinking on in particular and it seems
like um you know like I I open
symmetries current connection management
I think in November and sort of like one
of them is still working on in the other
and I think I've had a chance to look at
so I'm wondering if we should maybe get
a bit more involved there as well just
like entropy more PRS and stuff
I think I think so I recommend like
jumping on on the calls and like waiting
the issue jumping on the calls and
asking whether there is consensus around
a certain solution for instance a
general direction before before starting
the the work otherwise you could you
kids have to enroll and the work which
which is always always a pain but but
but yeah I think if we have the time
like dedicating that to making some
pieces of Lippe to prfs better to fit
our needs and not battering in the way
that is like very specific better but
generically better I think it's very
welcome p2p connection stuff right
that's kind of there was something more
about about the the dial management
right there yeah there was a couple of
they did fix some stuff for us actually
very quickly around preventing double
dials and that kind of thing and then we
uncovered some other issues one is one I
just just cover the other day I haven't
brought up with them which is around
canceling dials and then there was a
couple of other issues that like they're
sort of like halfway through working on
one of them I basically fixed it and
then they found that there was some
other it it revealed some bugs did
another part of the p2p so they were
they're gonna look into that so I've
been kind of going through and fixing
what I can but I don't really have the
knowledge you know to make big changes
in in the switch and I think as Pedro
saying we we may need to take a pretty
close look at the code first start us
before we integrate that it's a very
complex piece so I think maybe we could
contribute some tests and maybe just
code reviews and that kind of thing
yeah the hard part of the switch
connection management is is it that
stateful API so it keeps a lot of state
there and so it so that that prevents a
lot of concurrency a lot of if there are
concurrent calls four four four diodes
or cancels its the API is not really
prepared for that but there's no handle
for a for a dial for instance and that's
something that we put in peer base
itself but I I agree we should be
rolling that into switch for instance
and there's a lot of small tweaks that
we we will eventually have to start
pushing towards the p2p and a BFS itself
we we should started numerating some of
those that would be a good good effort
starting and working things that we
could like trim down from peer base and
and I'm prepared to start going into
until Liberty before I'm thinking about
for instance gossip sub if instead of
using like flood sub which tries to
connect to every discover nodes gossip
service a more scalable topology kind of
similar to what we have already
developed for for peer beds but specific
to the gossip the sorry the pub/sub
interface yeah I think that's a good
idea
just
my head but I agree we I should I should
get that that that discussion started
things to push into layers beneath okay
any more any more questions or points
so I guess that's it thank you for
coming and I will see you next week bye
bye okay